# Red Hat Solutions Brief

* Company: **Axibase**
* Solution: Axibase Time Series Database
* Product [Link](https://axibase.com/products/axibase-time-series-database/)
* Company Logo: https://axibase.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/axibase_logo_orange-2.png
* Red Hat Container Catalog [Link](https://access.redhat.com/containers/?tab=tags#/registry.connect.redhat.com/axibase/atsd)

## Company Description

Axibase Corporation is a California company that develops software solutions for analyzing machine data at scale. Founded in 2004, the company has been primarily focused on helping enterprise customers optimize their IT infrastructure with performance monitoring and capacity planning solutions that are pre-integrated for IBM Tivoli, HP Operations, Oracle EM, VMware vCenter and other leading IT operations frameworks. In 2013 we introduced Axibase Time Series Database, a Hadoop-based database management system optimized for storing time series generated by all kinds of digital assets, from servers and sensors to industrial equipment and IoT devices. Since its debut, ATSD has been selected by customers to power both massive 'data lake' projects as well as research-oriented data consolidation initiatives. Axibase products are currently deployed at Fortune 100 companies and government organizations across the globe. 

## Solution Profile

Axibase Time Series Database integrates the Docker environment with a customer's existing IT management systems by consolidating usage statistics and detailed configurations in a single repository and securely exposing the Docker data to upstream tools (CMDB, monitoring, event manamgement) via the ATSD API and real-time notifications.

## Solution Tag Line

Bridge the gap between traditional and micro-services architectures by integrating the Docker environment with existing IT operations systems.

## Executive Summary

Managing a complex IT environment has never been more challenging. Having recently completed major virtualization and datacenter consolidation projects, enterprise customers are under increasing pressure to apply centralized tools and processes to the rapidly growing Linux container deployments, often spearheaded by the organization's development teams. Rather than fully embracing containers and risking the stability of current services, many organizations are adopting a two-speed approach to IT architecture where agile customer-oriented capabilities are demarcated from the stable legacy systems whose release cycles are slower.

Axibase Time Series Database, with its integration capabilities, serves as a bridge between these two types of environments by providing IT operations teams the necessary visibility, control, and automation into Lonux containers while delivering a single pane of glass view of container performance for development and QA teams.

## Partner Quote

We know firsthand from our experience with enterprise customers that integration is their top priority. Linux containers are operationally disruptive enough on their own, so we worked closely with Red Hat engineering to test and certify the ATSD Red Hat image. Now that we have released ATSD in the Red Hat Container Catalog we're comitted to ensuring deployment success for our joint customers.

-Sergei Rodionov, CEO of Axibase Corporation

## Solution Benefits

* Seamlessly collect detailed configurations and statistics at the host, container, volume, and network level from multiple Docker hosts.
* Analyze incoming data with the built-in rule engine and escalate actionable data to upstream alerting and monitoring systems.
* Automatically assemble application-centric dashboards using image and container-labels for filtering and roll-ups.
* Provide development and operations teams a search interface to quickly locate resources as the environment grows in size and scope.
* Distribute scheduled reports on historical and estimated host and container utilization to prevent performance bottlenecks.

## Use Cases

* Linux Container Monitoring
  - Collect cpu, memory, I/O, volume, and network statistics from Docker hosts and containers.
  - Correllate container utilization with OS-level usage for triage and diagnostics.
  - Instantly visualize data with built-in, real-time host and container dashboards.
  - Automatically build service dashboards using image and container labels.

* Centralized Change Management
  - Perform detailed inventory scans of the Docker environment including hosts, images, containers, volumes, and networks.
  - Notify applications and operations teams in case of container misplacements.
  - Enforce labeling standards to ensure CMDB accuracy.

* Compliance and Security
  - Intercept and react to life-cycle events such as new image pulls, container starts, container command executions.
  - Identify images and containers that violate pre-approved black-lists and white-lists.
  - Perform enterprise-wide inventory queries to identify configuration abnormalities.
  - Scan launch parameters and variables to ensure secrets and credentials are protected.


## Call to Action

Deploy a certified ATSD Red Hat container in your own environment in 15 minutes by following these [steps](https://github.com/axibase/axibase-collector/blob/master/jobs/docker/docker-compose-rhel.md). For support and sales inquiries, contact our dedicated support at redhat-atsd@axibase.com or (408) 973-7897.
